Day1
---------
Frontend
------------

1. The part of the website that the user interacts with directly is called frontend
2. frontend it is also referred as client side of the application
3. it includes everything that user experience directly
4. HTML, CSS,JS,Bootstrap are the langauges used for frontend development

Backend
---------------

1. Backend is the server side of the website
2. it stores and arranges the data also make sure everything on the client side of the web site works fine
3. in backend there are some languages like java,python,php, dot net etc

API
------------

Application programming interface is the collection of protocols used by various programming to communicate b/w them


Storage areas
-------------

as part of our application we required to store data like customer info, billing info, calls info etc

to store this data we require storage areas

2 types of storage area such as

1. Temporary storage areas
-----------------------------------
These are the memory areas where the data will be stored temporarly
eg: all pvm memeory areas(like heap area, stack area,method area,pc registers, native method stacks). once pvm shutdown all these memory areas will be cleared automatically

2. Permanent storage areas
-----------------------------------
also know as persistant storage area. here we can store data permanantely

ex: file systems, databases,data warehouse,bigdata etc

File Manaagement system
----------------------------------

A file management system is a system where data is stored in files on the operating systems, each supplication program must handle its own storage data
retrieval and updating. File systems can be provided by the local operating system

ex: A library management system storing  books in separate text files likes, books.txt, members.txt

Limitations
--------------------
1. Data redundancy : same data stored in multiple files
2. Data inconsistency : Updates in  one file may not be reflected in another
3. poor data security : No proper accessed control
4. Difficult data Retrival : Searching requires custom programs
5. Integrity Issue : No constraints( eg: rollnumber uniqueness)
6. scalability Issues : Hard to manage as data grows

to overcome above problems in file management systems we go for database

DBMS
-------------------
A collections of programs that enables user to create, manage and manipulate databases

it acts as an interface b/w user and database

adv
-----

1. we can store huge amount of info in db
2. query language support is available for every db hence we can perform db operations easily
3. To accesses data present in database, compulsory username and password must be required. hence data is secured
4. inside db data will be stored in the form of tables. while developing db table schemas, database admin follow various normalization
techniques and we can implement various constraints like unique constraint, primary key constraints etc which prevents data duplication. hence there is no chance of data inconsistency problems

Limitations
---------------

1. DB cannot store huge amount of information like terabytes(1000gb) of data
2. DB can provide support for only structured data (tabular data or relational data) and cannot provide support for semi structured data like(XML files) and unstructured data(like files, audio, image etc)

to overcome these limitations we should go for advanced storage areas like bigdata, data warehouse etc


Differences b/w File Management system and Database management system
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. data is stored in separate files
 data is stored in structed database
2. High data redundancy 
 reduces data redundancy
3. Security Is limited
   provides strong security

4. Data sharing difficult
   multiple users can access data
5. No relation b/w files
   supports relationship b/w tables

6. Back and recovery are difficult
  provides back and recovery features

7. Data inconsistency may occur anomalies
  maintain data consistency and integrity

8. suitable for small applications
 suitable for small, medium, large applications

IQ what is  diff b/w FMS and DBMS

a file system stores data in separate files and may lead to data redundancy, and security issues, A dbms stores data in structured manner using tables, reduces redundancy provides security, support multiple users, and ensures data consistency and integrity

What is data field








